[Music]
hello and welcome to this video series
on composure now in this video we're
just going to go ahead and introduce you
to some of the bits and pieces of the
interface or the composer software so
let's go ahead and take a quick
walkthrough shall we now after you've
downloaded unzipped and basically kind
of sort of installed moving over that in
an earlier video but kind of sort of
installed your software and open it up
this is what we're going to be looking
at now if you're in at all familiar with
in vu or in view as it's also called
then this is not going to be totally
foreign to you if you have never seen in
view but you're somewhat familiar with
some word processing programs then some
of this is going to look pretty familiar
but for the most part bear with me I'm
going to go ahead and try to tackle as
much of this as possible just to make
sure we're all on the same page now over
here on the far left we have the site
manager we're going to get into this at
a later point where we discuss the
publishing aspect of composer this and
this character right here they pretty
much go hand-in-hand
now then on the right this is our
composition area and this is basically
where all the work is going to be done
and down at the bottom on these tabs we
have the various types of views the
normal view the tag view the source view
and the preview so this here is supposed
to be what it looks like on a typical
browser once it's been uploaded to the
Internet but basically the preview will
give you a better idea as to what it's
actually going to look like once it's
been published and then moving along up
here at the top we have our menu bar and
one thing I wanted to point out you'll
probably see this you know and not be
too scared away because it looks pretty
familiar and then as it should be but
under the view if you go here and then
go to show/hide you can see those that
are ticked are the toolbars right here
and I just like to have all mine showing
but down here the site manager that's
this guy over here to the right so if
you want to get rid of them to give you
more room more workspace in your
composition area then that's how you can
do that of course you can also
just hit this X right here that will
tackle the same thing now then once you
get a bunch of tabs open here then we'll
discuss later on how the default
settings are related to the multiple tab
openings but if you want to let's say
you've got three or four tabs here but
you're done with this particular page
you can hit this red X here and it will
close the page the active page the page
that you are on at the time it will
leave open or it will leave alone all
the other tabs you have available here
so that's what this red X here will do
for you and let me pull up some of these
other guys again composition and format
toolbar
now then these two guys here if again if
you're any at all familiar with word
processing programs then these are not
foreign at all these will show you the
body text
we have no class setup just yet and this
will be dealing a lot with the CSS or
the cascading style sheets which we'll
be getting into in a couple of videos
here down the line and so this is just
some of the basic formatting when it
comes to the text of our documents now
then up here have some more of our
composition bar and a lot of these look
pretty familiar you know you got to just
get here which is where you use to save
your file and so on so a lot of the
stuff is pretty obvious one thing I do
want to point out though is that on the
open space over here on these toolbars
if you right-click you get this option
where you can customize a toolbar and
then you left click on that and it
brings up this page here where you can
just simply let's say you want to have
this option available on that particular
toolbar you can see the little square
that opens up there see where it goes
away now then on this bar so these two
bars here you can have these you just
left hold and drag and it can be brought
to that bar or to the lower bar in
either case or you click on this one
here to restore to default and it takes
them away now and this one here of
course you got these other options as
well
this top bar our composition bar is a
little bit different because it has
different options you right-click on
this left click on customize toolbar as
you can see you have a couple of
different options here now then one the
show icons down here versus icons and
text and it really sucks up a lot of
room there well if you just go to the
icons then you get a lot of room saved
and you can save even more room if you
pull these spacers down out of the way
of course it kind of squishes things
together there but since I am no spell
or whatsoever I like to have my spell
check available for me and want a
horizontal line let's get a horizontal
line stick up there too now then if for
some reason you just you know don't need
that stuff anymore you can always go
back to restore default set and there
you have it
put your spaces back in there and
everything and add our text along with
that so that's pretty much it folks as
far as a quick introduction to the
interface of composer now and I hope you
stick around for some of the upcoming
videos I'm excited and I've already made
the video so I can't like to show you
thank you much for watching and you have
a great day